# CrossConfig

This package provides a simple cross-platform configuration system for storing,
loading, and updating settings for an application or project. This package uses
only standard library modules, and it encodes settings in JSON.

## Installation

```bash
pip install crossconfig
```

## Status

Issues can be tracked [here](https://github.com/k98kurz/crossconfig/issues).
Changelog can be found
[here](https://github.com/k98kurz/crossconfig/blob/master/changelog.md)

## Usage

Usage is simple: import the `get_config` function, and call it with the name of
your application. This will return a config object that you can use to load,
save, and get settings. If you want to use a portable config, pass
`portable=True` to the function, and the settings file will be stored in the
current working directory instead of the user's home directory.

Full documentation generated by [autodox](https://pypi.org/project/autodox) can
be found [here](https://github.com/k98kurz/crossconfig/blob/master/docs.md).

<details>
<summary>Example</summary>

```python
from crossconfig import get_config

# load the config for the current user
config = get_config("my_app_name")
config.load()

# get a path for a subdirectory
subdir_path = config.path("subdir")

# set a setting
config.set("my_setting", "my_value")

# save and reload the config
config.save()
config = get_config("my_app_name")
config.load()

# get a setting
assert config.get("my_setting") == "my_value"

# unset a setting
config.unset("my_setting")

# save the config
config.save()
```
</details>

### Notes

- The `load` method will return a JSON decode error if the config file is not
  valid JSON. If it loads successfully, it will return `None`.
- There is no lock for multi-threaded access to the config object or file.
  calling `save` or `load` in a multi-threaded environment may result in a race
  condition.
- If a setting is set in one instance of the config object, it will be
  reflected in all other instances of the config object retrieved with the same
  call to `get_config` within the same process.
- This may not follow the Windows- or MacOS-specific conventions for the current
  year. The goal is to make something that works regardless. However, if the
  behavior of `os.expanduser` or `os.getcwd` changes, this may break in the
  future.

## License

Copyright (c) 2025 Jonathan Voss (k98kurz)

Permission to use, copy, modify, and/or distribute this software
for any purpose with or without fee is hereby granted, provided
that the above copyright notice and this permission notice appear in
all copies.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS" AND THE AUTHOR DISCLAIMS ALL
WARRANTIES WITH REGARD TO THIS SOFTWARE INCLUDING ALL IMPLIED
WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHOR BE LIABLE FOR ANY SPECIAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, OR
CONSEQUENTIAL DAMAGES OR ANY DAMAGES WHATSOEVER RESULTING FROM LOSS
OF USE, DATA OR PROFITS, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT,
NEGLIGENCE OR OTHER TORTIOUS ACTION, ARISING OUT OF OR IN
CONNECTION WITH THE USE OR PERFORMANCE OF THIS SOFTWARE.
